emmaperetti | 2024-04-16 06:58:57 UTC | #1

Hello everyone,

We at the DFINITY Foundation have been working to provide greater visibility into our roadmap and more opportunities for the community to provide feedback on DFINITY’s contributions to the Internet Computer through forum threads, AMAs, community conversations, and 1:1 working sessions with developer teams. The next evolution of this work and something we have been very excited to get off the ground for some time now is the idea of **technical working groups**. Over the past few weeks, we have been discussing potential structures and topics for these groups both internally and with several members of the community. We would like to share the proposed path forward here.

Some guidelines on how we are thinking about these working groups:

* The goal of these working groups is to define **shared objectives and priorities** between the Foundation and the IC community. Each working group will identify initiatives that translate into a shared roadmap, where the Foundation can actively collaborate with community members on shared roadmap items.
* Working groups should focus on frameworks, standards, infrastructure, and public goods and not the commercial interests of anyone dapp, platform, or specific vertical (as many of the proposed technical topics cut across many verticals).
* Each working group will have a DFINITY lead, a community lead, and a coordinator.
* Forum threads will be created for each working group, similar to how DFINITY's roadmap items are discussed today.
* Meetings will be hosted on Zoom, and all meeting notes will be made publicly available afterward in the respective forum threads.
* Proposed cadence will be monthly.
* Coordinating across all time zones will be tricky, so we will try out the below proposed time slots for now and adjust as needed.

Find public calendar for these and all future meetings [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y19jZ29lcTkxN3JwZWFwN3ZzZTNpczFobDMxMEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

and [browser calendar link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_cgoeq917rpeap7vse3is1hl310%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FZurich)

List of topics:

[Update April 2024]
**Topic: Inter-canister Event Utility**
Lead: @skilesare 
Community Coordinator: @ilialor
Discord: [inter-canister-events](https://discord.gg/XaNjTtg8)
Meeting Notes: [Link ](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1v8ocWv4bgLPxst-a4NnboDGUcMzD0QXS?usp=drive_link)
Cadence: Weekly on Wednesday at 7:00pm CET
First meeting: April 4, 2024 at 7:00pm CET
Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-inter-canister-event-utility-working-group/29048

[Update February 2024]
**Topic: DeFi** 
Lead: @infu 
Cadence: Every Tuesday, 3 pm UTC 
First meeting: February 6th, 2024
Location: [ICP Dev Discord Voice Channel](https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/753880564947222568)
Discord: [DeFi Channel](https://discord.gg/zHgN6aBUuu)
Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-deai/24621
Github: https://github.com/neutrinomic/wg_defi

[Update December 2023]
**Topic: Decentralized AI (DeAI)** 
Lead: @patnorris 
Cadence: Every Thursday, 5 pm UTC
Location: [ICP Dev Discord Voice Channel](https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/753880564947222568) 
First meeting: November 23rd, 2023
Discord: [DeAI](https://discord.gg/Q3ywwkc7Kw)
Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-deai/24621

[Update July 2023]
**Topic: BTC on ICP** 
**Lead:** @bob11 
**Coordinator:** @domwoe
**Cadence:** Monthly on the first Thursday of every month at 3 pm UTC 
**First meeting:** August 3rd, 2023
Discord: [BTC on ICP](https://discord.gg/R7eKjk93k5)
Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-btc-on-icp/21225
Meeting Notes: [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U-skArRxJK3YPOHKgBAdrr2_6cgWff96Cd-Qfi6M7Zc)

[Update July 2023]
**Topic: Naming System** 
**DFINITY lead:** @Kepler
**Coordinator:** @domwoe
**Cadence:** Monthly on the last Thursday of every month at 10 am CET
**First meeting:** July 27th, 2023
Discord: https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/1126922188742729948
Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-naming-system/21236/1

**Topic: ICRC Catch-all (pending issues and sorting)**
DFINITY lead: @benji 
Coordinator: TBD
Forum: [post](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/icrc-catch-all-working-group/19624)
Cadence: Bi-weekly Wednesdays at 6 pm CEST (GMT+2)
First meeting: May 23rd, 2023

**Topic: Identity & Wallet Standards**
DFINITY lead: @frederikrothenberger  
Coordinator: @marydwyer 
Link to Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-identity-authentication/11902
Cadence: Bi-weekly Tuesdays at 5:00pm CET

**Topic: Developer Tooling**
DFINITY lead: @dfx-json 
Coordinator: @domwoe
Discord: [Developer Tooling](https://discord.gg/XPZFEdwbuX)
Forum: [Main Thread with updates](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-developer-tooling/11941) 
Cadence: Monthly on the first Thursday of every month at 7 pm CET
First meeting: April 7, 2022, at 7:00 pm CET

**Topic: Ledger & Tokenization**
DFINITY lead: @dieter.sommer 
Coordinator: @benji
Discord: [Ledger & Tokenization Channel](https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/976871875043016704)
Forum: [Main thread with updates](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/announcing-token-standard-as-topic-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-ledger-tokenization-working-group/)
GitHub: https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC-1/ 
Slides and Recordings: [Link to Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1TlaDISjZpAKpqJdXzYMw4hhuKj5YxZ3J)
Cadence: Bi-weekly on Tuesday at 6:00 PM CET
First meeting: April 12, 2022, at 5:00 pm CET

[Update Mar 2023]
**Topic: NFT (subgroup of Ledger & Tokenization)**
DFINITY lead: @benji
Coordinator: @dieter.sommer 
Main thread: [forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/call-for-participation-nft-token-standard-working-group-status-updated/16566/5)
Github: [ICRC-7](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/tree/main/ICRCs/ICRC-7)
Cadence: Bi-weekly on 2nd and 4th Tuesdays at 17:00 CET
First meeting: Tue 29nd Nov 2022

[Update July 2022 ]
**Topic: Scalability & Performance**
DFINITY lead: @abk 
Coordinator: @domwoe 
Discord: [Scalability](https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/994942091463512175)
Forum: [Main thread with updates](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-scalability-performance/14265)
Cadence: Monthly on the third Thursday of every month at 5:30 pm CET
First meeting: July 21, 2022, at 5:30pm CET


[Update June 2023]
**Topic: Motoko**
DFINITY lead: @dfx-json
Coordinator: @icme 
[Forum post](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/motoko-developer-working-group/20488)
Meeting cadence: 2nd Thursday of each month, 8am US Pacific. 


Find public calendar for these and all future meetings [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y19jZ29lcTkxN3JwZWFwN3ZzZTNpczFobDMxMEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

and [browser calendar link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_cgoeq917rpeap7vse3is1hl310%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FZurich)


**Archived Working Groups:** 

**Topic: Blockchain Integrations**
DFINITY lead: [@Dieter Sommer](https://dfinity.slack.com/team/U020YAFRGRK)
Coordinator: [@Dieter Sommer](https://dfinity.slack.com/team/U020YAFRGRK)
Discord: [Ethereum integration](https://discord.com/channels/748416164832608337/1075067736285266130)
First meeting: March 22, 2023 on Zoom 

*[Archived November 2023]*
***Topic: Education***
*Leadership: **[@Seb](https://forum.dfinity.org/u/Seb)***
*Coordinator: **[@cryptoschindler](https://forum.dfinity.org/u/cryptoschindler)** *
*Discord: [Education](https://discord.gg/qA2wV2gYNj)*
*First meeting: November 17 2022*
*Last meeting: December 2023*

[Archived 2023]
**Topic: Governance**
Leadership: @bjoernek, @brutoshi , @lastmjs 
Coordinator: @emmaperetti 
Link to Forum: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-governance/15584
Discord: [Governance](https://discord.gg/xkaM2qEMsn)
First meeting: September 29 
[Github Repo](https://github.com/dfinity/wg-governance)

-------------------------

icme | 2022-03-30 00:08:00 UTC | #2

Thanks for setting this up, having a developer events calendar we can subscribe to is sweet!!!

I see there isn't an infrastructure topic - is this covered under developer tooling/scalability (i.e. potential overlap)?

Also, some of these are pretty straight forward (i.e. canister metrics & reporting, network governance, etc.), but others have some more overlap (i.e. identity & auth, security & audits, privacy), so it would be great if each of these topics could include a brief 1 sentence/paragraph scope of what types of questions/topics are appropriate for each meeting.

-------------------------

alexa.smith | 2022-03-30 00:17:13 UTC | #3

Yes, we imagine there will be some overlap here and there, but it will really be up to the working groups to define scope, agenda, etc. once up-and-running. There will also likely be a separate monthly meeting just for leads where some of these overlapping topics (or gaps) can be identified.

-------------------------

jzxchiang | 2022-03-31 01:00:59 UTC | #4

Oh no, the dreaded 5pm CET... :face_with_spiral_eyes:

Really exciting stuff. +1 to a future Scalability working group.

BTW, the @dfx-json handle is really clever.

-------------------------

Fulco | 2022-04-05 08:28:30 UTC | #5



-------------------------

daijianlin | 2022-04-05 09:04:05 UTC | #6

That's what I am thinking about a lot recently, why are you so late to do this so :sweat_smile: :sweat_smile: :sweat_smile:? :joy: :joy: :joy: Anyway, very exciting to see this and hope we could see the detailed roadmap soon, then we maybe able to see what 250+ team members are doing everyday so that while the same time the community member is possible to provide feedback?

-------------------------

emmaperetti | 2022-04-05 12:20:50 UTC | #7

Topic: Identity & Authentication will be discussed here: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/working-group-identity-authentication/11902
Looking forward to see you in today's group session!

-------------------------

Fulco | 2022-04-05 16:23:58 UTC | #8

Hey everyone, Thank you for attending the session today. The next session about developer tooling is Thursday 7pm please leave any questions in [this thread](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-developer-tooling/11941/2)

-------------------------

bobbylingus | 2022-04-12 09:16:03 UTC | #9

Will the recordings end up on youtube?

-------------------------

witter | 2022-04-12 16:16:00 UTC | #10

**Topic: Ledger & Tokenization**
I am one of the initiators of CBD (Canister Builder DAO) and standardization is the main matter of CBD.
First of all, Fungible Token and Non-fungible Token are very different things and each deserves to be discussed separately, so I suggest that the official Working Group should create different Topics to discuss them separately.

-------------------------

mariop | 2022-04-12 17:54:02 UTC | #11

[quote="witter, post:10, topic:11781, full:true"]
**Topic: Ledger & Tokenization**
I am one of the initiators of CBD (Canister Builder DAO) and standardization is the main matter of CBD.
First of all, Fungible Token and Non-fungible Token are very different things and each deserves to be discussed separately, so I suggest that the official Working Group should create different Topics to discuss them separately.
[/quote]

Hi Witter, I'm leading the Ledger & Tokenization working group. I agree with you that we should discuss Fungible and Non-Fungible Token Standards separately. During the working group today I explained that we will do so and we will start with Fungible Tokens.

-------------------------

mariop | 2022-04-12 17:56:15 UTC | #12

Hi everyone, I'm happy to announce that we have decided to reduce the time between Ledger & Tokenization working group meeting from 1 month to 2 weeks to speed up the discussion around token standards. The next meeting will be the 26th of April. More info in the [separate forum thread](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/announcing-token-standard-as-topic-of-the-first-meeting-of-the-ledger-tokenization-working-group/11925/6).

-------------------------

ayjayem | 2022-04-25 02:46:15 UTC | #13

In addition to the working groups already rolling out, I would like to propose prioritizing the planned working group for Network Governance. I believe a dedicated forum could help focus and synthesize discussions taking place around spam proposals and related matters.

-------------------------

inviscidpixels | 2022-04-26 16:09:20 UTC | #14

This would also be helpful for developing out the SNS. 2^u!

-------------------------

darien | 2022-04-30 21:08:55 UTC | #16

hey…relax it’s the weekend…take it easy…what ever fuck up ( or maybe not) you think you made is already done. Just take your Girlfriend or Boyfriend out for a drink, get a massage get some sleep or something. stop watching CMC. you are not going to influence anybody in this forum. Smart people hang around here!!

-------------------------

Fulco | 2022-05-03 08:21:52 UTC | #18



-------------------------

emmaperetti | 2023-06-29 11:29:23 UTC | #19

team, find Internet Computer Event calendar below. 
*[ Google calendar link](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid%3DY19jZ29lcTkxN3JwZWFwN3ZzZTNpczFobDMxMEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1688469680662125&usg=AOvVaw17dNKsICtleOdhD7oHswMZ)
*[ Public / browser calendar link](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src%3Dc_cgoeq917rpeap7vse3is1hl310%2540group.calendar.google.com%26ctz%3DAsia%252FSeoul&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1688469680662125&usg=AOvVaw0Gqyf7w6nkfgpOqNFQOhlN)

-------------------------

nikhil.ranjan | 2022-05-09 12:00:01 UTC | #20

Hey guys, Next Ledger & Tokenization technical working group meeting is tomorrow 10 may 5 pm CET. The calendar event can be found [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=Y19jazBncjc5YmtnY29vaWNuMXA4N21vMWVyb0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t). Zoom link is [here ](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/94765742644?pwd%3Dd3pFRjFnUy91MncxSnN3ajdCdkRDZz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1652527288352687&usg=AOvVaw1vznn0t5qYkfjUFTRsF4AO). Please update your calendars.

-------------------------

Maxfinity | 2022-05-09 13:49:56 UTC | #21

Guys, why are we doing this tomorrow and announcing with one day notice? This will not increase participation.

-------------------------

Fulco | 2022-05-13 12:09:46 UTC | #22

Hey MaxFinity,

You can find all upcoming events in the calendar of the initial post. These are simply reminders

-------------------------

nikhil.ranjan | 2022-05-16 13:35:54 UTC | #23

Next Ledger & Tokenization technical working group meeting is happening on 19 may 5 pm CET. The calendar event can be found [here ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=Y19jazBncjc5YmtnY29vaWNuMXA4N21vMWVyb0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t). Zoom link is [here ](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/94765742644?pwd%3Dd3pFRjFnUy91MncxSnN3ajdCdkRDZz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1652527288352687&usg=AOvVaw1vznn0t5qYkfjUFTRsF4AO)

-------------------------

mariop | 2022-05-19 16:14:50 UTC | #24

Hi everyone, FYI we have set up a chat on Discord for each working group. Join us @ https://discord.gg/J8Xer3Hm.

-------------------------

nikhil.ranjan | 2022-05-24 16:25:55 UTC | #25

Hey guys, Next Ledger & Tokenization technical working group meeting is on May 27, 5 pm CET. The calendar event can be found [here ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=Y19jazBncjc5YmtnY29vaWNuMXA4N21vMWVyb0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t). Zoom link is [here ](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/94765742644?pwd%3Dd3pFRjFnUy91MncxSnN3ajdCdkRDZz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1652527288352687&usg=AOvVaw1vznn0t5qYkfjUFTRsF4AO). Please update your calendars.

-------------------------

nikhil.ranjan | 2022-05-27 08:32:58 UTC | #26

Hey community, Today's tokenisation working group is cancelled due to unavailability of community members essential for today's topics.

-------------------------

nikhil.ranjan | 2022-05-30 07:02:26 UTC | #27

Hey community, Next Ledger & Tokenization technical working group meeting is on May 31, 6 pm CET. The calendar event can be found [here ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r?cid=Y19jazBncjc5YmtnY29vaWNuMXA4N21vMWVyb0Bncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t). Zoom link is [here ](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/94765742644?pwd%3Dd3pFRjFnUy91MncxSnN3ajdCdkRDZz09&sa=D&source=calendar&ust=1652527288352687&usg=AOvVaw1vznn0t5qYkfjUFTRsF4AO)

-------------------------

emmaperetti | 2022-09-23 13:27:07 UTC | #28

team, announcing technical working group on Governance here: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-governance/15584

-------------------------

Seb | 2022-11-09 16:02:14 UTC | #29

Hi! Announcing technical working group on Education here: [WG education](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-education/16463)

-------------------------

osman | 2022-11-23 18:41:55 UTC | #30

I bought $OT token on icdex platform today. However, I had a problem. I made a few attempts to perform the purchase process. but there was no change in my wallet balance. So the purchase was not happening. I guess I thought the platform is not active and I left the platform. A few hours later, when I entered my wallet, I saw that the transaction was completed. I hope the developers will fix this problem.

-------------------------

diegop | 2022-11-23 19:26:57 UTC | #31

[quote="osman, post:30, topic:11781"]
on icdex platform today
[/quote]

@osman as one of the moderators, I don’t think this is the right place to put your comment since it’s not quite relevant. Can you make a new forum post or maybe reach out to the platform you used?

-------------------------

osman | 2022-11-23 19:35:32 UTC | #32

I became aware of idex with dom.icp ∞ link sharing and started using it. In fact, I wrote it here because it is a the ICP platform project exists. Maybe project owners can read and develop their projects. Thanks for the warning, too.

-------------------------

diegop | 2022-11-23 19:42:27 UTC | #33

Totally reasonable, @osman !

I just want to do my duty as a mod to help direct folks.

-------------------------

frederikrothenberger | 2022-12-06 16:08:15 UTC | #34

There seems to be an issue with the Identity & Auth working group link unfortunately. This one here should work: https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/92486080373?pwd=dXNJaWsycW9vSHl1UEhFOXc4am5VZz09

-------------------------

emmaperetti | 2023-07-03 14:46:39 UTC | #35

We have updated the Technical Working Group calendar: Find public calendar [here ](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y19jZ29lcTkxN3JwZWFwN3ZzZTNpczFobDMxMEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

and [browser calendar link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_cgoeq917rpeap7vse3is1hl310%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FZurich)

-------------------------

patnorris | 2023-11-12 16:37:28 UTC | #36

Hi everyone, we had the idea of a Technical Working Group around DeAI (https://forum.dfinity.org/t/technical-working-group-deai/24621) and I wanted to reach out on this thread; is this something that DFINITY would be interested in? Is there any specific process in place to start a new working group?
Thanks, Pat

-------------------------

frederikrothenberger | 2024-03-27 09:50:04 UTC | #38

PSA: the meeting of the identity and wallet standards working group on April 2 is cancelled. The next meeting of that working group will be on April 16.

-------------------------

John_steven | 2024-04-05 05:35:13 UTC | #39

[quote="daijianlin, post:6, topic:11781, full:true"]
That’s what I am thinking about a lot recently, why are you so late to do this so :sweat_smile: :sweat_smile: :sweat_smile:? :joy: :joy: :joy: Anyway, very exciting to see this and hope we could see the detailed roadmap soon, then we maybe able to see what 250+ team members are doing everyday so that while the same time the community member is possible to provide feedback?
[/quote]
The delay might be due to various factors like prioritization, resource allocation, or development complexities. Once the detailed roadmap is available, it will provide insights into the team's activities, facilitating community feedback and alignment.

-------------------------

shery | 2024-06-25 08:53:07 UTC | #41

Thats really awesome. it will help a lot in the enhancements of our ongoing things on ICP. Thanks and hoping to have. a great journey with all ICP oommunity

-------------------------

Meer | 2024-07-23 07:05:31 UTC | #42

Hi Emma,
Wondering how one can be part of these working groups based on certain interest and expertise area. Thanks.

-------------------------

sea-snake | 2024-07-25 12:53:10 UTC | #43

Check the agenda: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=c_cgoeq917rpeap7vse3is1hl310@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe/Zurich

Feel free to join any of the zoom calls, they're public and recordings are available for these calls.

-------------------------

