dieter.sommer | 2024-03-26 15:52:59 UTC | #205

Agenda for the NFT Working Group call this afternoon, 2024-03-26:
* Change for metadata / hash modelling discussed above
* Getting more participation in the WG for the upcoming work items
  * Broader announcement, e.g., in global R&D, Twitter etc.
  * Concrete calls for action, e.g., feedback on standards
* Continuing work on ongoing proposals

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-03-26 18:44:13 UTC | #206

The WG had a good discussion on how to model metadata in the ICRC-3 blocks of an ICRC-7 ledger. The discussion was longer and more complex than anticipated and the decision was to ensure that it is guaranteed that the ledger state can always be reproduced from the full block log of the ledger.

See [ICRC-7](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/blob/main/ICRCs/ICRC-7/ICRC-7.md#icrc-7-block-schema) for the update.
The main change encompassed that we recommend that metadata be expressed always with a `Map` variant of `Value` that holds the tuple `("icrc7:token_metadata", metadata)`, where `metadata` is the actual updated metadata of the token expressed in a `Map` variant of `Value`. It has been phrased that in the absence of any extension standard that is used, the above SHOULD be used. This keeps it open to future extension and recommends this for now in order to keep the ledger state reconstructable.

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-04-05 02:23:30 UTC | #207

A few notes from the current draft for when you get back from vacation. Excited to get this to the nns.

1. This seems a bit off. Is it a vec opt record{metadata: vec record {text; Value}} query? If the record is there and we have to be explicit about metadata, let's do so.
 ```
icrc7_token_metadata : (token_ids : vec nat)
    -> (vec opt metadata: vec record { text; Value }) query;
```

2. Let's make sure and get the asyncs in there for all the function return types.

3. Update ICRC-61 to ICRC-10

4. On 37 can we call TransferFromResponse TransferFromResult so it is consistent?

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-04-08 09:33:02 UTC | #208

@skilesare 
Thanks for the valuable comments, Austin! Back from vacation now and finally wrapping this up. The comments are all addressed now, see links below.

[quote="skilesare, post:207, topic:16566"]
1. This seems a bit off. Is it a vec opt record{metadata: vec record {text; Value}} query? If the record is there and we have to be explicit about metadata, letâ€™s do so.

```
icrc7_token_metadata : (token_ids : vec nat)
   -> (vec opt metadata: vec record { text; Value }) query;
```
[/quote]

Indeed, there is a glitch in the current response type. There are two options to fix this:
1. Using the explicit record as you suggested it.
```
icrc7_token_metadata : (token_ids : vec nat)
   -> (vec opt record { metadata: vec record { text; Value }}) query;
```
2. Omitting the record and keeping it with one less layer of nesting. This may be more consistent with the other responses where we usually don't introduce a record just for giving a name to the response field, but just have a `vec` of some type.
```
icrc7_token_metadata : (token_ids : vec nat)
   -> (vec opt vec record { text; Value }) query;
```

1 is more explicit, 2 is simpler as it has one less level of nesting.

Have chosen Option 2 as it is simpler, but that's not a strong opinion, just striving for simplicity for an implementation and consistency with what we have. If you have a strong opinion that we should have the record explicit, let me know.

[quote="skilesare, post:207, topic:16566"]
Letâ€™s make sure and get the asyncs in there for all the function return types.
[/quote]

All the Candid functions are by definition asynchronous IMHO, so there is no `async` keyword in Candid. The `async` keyword comes into play for Motoko, though, but we don't specifically use Motoko syntax in the API spec here.

[quote="skilesare, post:207, topic:16566"]
Update ICRC-61 to ICRC-10
[/quote]

All done now.

[quote="skilesare, post:207, topic:16566"]
On 37 can we call TransferFromResponse TransferFromResult so it is consistent?
[/quote]

Done.

**Links**

[ICRC-7](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/blob/icrc-7-draft/ICRCs/ICRC-7/ICRC-7.md)
[ICRC-37](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/blob/ICRC-37-Approval_support_for_ICRC-7_NFTs/ICRCs/ICRC-37/ICRC-37.md)

-------------------------

sea-snake | 2024-04-08 11:09:44 UTC | #209

I would opt for option 2, to avoid implementations from adding other fields to the record that should have been in the metadata itself.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-04-08 15:54:38 UTC | #210

What do we want to put on the agenda for the meeting tomorrow? ICRC-7 and ICRC-37 should not require further discussion, unless you have something on your minds.
@skilesare, @sea-snake, @benji, @kayicp, all

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-04-09 09:44:09 UTC | #211

It may be good to look and see if we have any blind spots. Did icrc7 end up not covering something that a disconnected person would have expected?

For example, one thing that jumps out to me is that we purposely ignored something like standard metadata for a token that a marketplace might expect. This also may be a good place to get some marketplaces involved in the WG.

-------------------------

cryptoschindler | 2024-04-09 15:54:32 UTC | #212

We know have a [discord channel](https://discord.gg/NWd8D4FQCf) to kick off the asynchronous conversation around ICRC-7 metadata standards. Please feel free to join everyone

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-04-12 10:30:17 UTC | #213

The ICRC-7 and ICRC-37 standards are close to be forwarded to the NNS for voting. Last chance to comment.

See this post for details: https://forum.dfinity.org/t/nft-standards-icrc-7-and-icrc-37-ready-for-nns-vote/29618

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-04-22 20:09:47 UTC | #214

We haven't received much feedback in the above forum topic on the soon-to-be-released NFT standards. The commenting time was now one week, which should be sufficient for anyone to raise issues, which has not happened. In my view, we can go ahead with an NNS vote shortly.

For tomorrow's meeting of 2024-04-23, my only agenda item is:
* Deciding whether to move forward with an NNS vote for ICRC-7 and ICRC-37

If people here in the group have any other suggestions for items and can prepare something, please let me know. I currently don't have time to prepare something. In case of no other suggestions, we can make it a short meeting.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-05-07 10:45:08 UTC | #215

https://forum.dfinity.org/t/nft-standards-icrc-7-and-icrc-37-ready-for-nns-vote/29618/17

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-05-07 10:45:29 UTC | #216

https://forum.dfinity.org/t/nft-standards-icrc-7-and-icrc-37-ready-for-nns-vote/29618/22

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-05-07 15:13:43 UTC | #217

I did put the following together as a base to start talking about marketplace standardized metadata:

https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/76

It is all open for discussion.

-------------------------

sea-snake | 2024-05-07 15:32:18 UTC | #218

Was a bit late for today's meeting which seems to be already over ðŸ˜…
Thanks for this initial base MR above, I'll have a look and add comments.

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-05-07 17:05:26 UTC | #219

It was my bad. I mis linked it in the discord and didn't get any comments because the link went nowhere.  We can pick it up in a couple of weeks.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-05-20 13:19:27 UTC | #220

Proposal for tomorrow's meeting of May 21 2024:
* Marketplace metadata: Continuation of our discussions

-------------------------

LightningLad91 | 2024-05-21 13:00:42 UTC | #221

@dieter.sommer Iâ€™m not a frequent attendant at this meeting but I support everything yall do.

Unfortunately I have a lot of concerns about the current ICRC-8 spec. Iâ€™m not sure how mature the spec is but I would like to discuss these concerns with the group.

I am planning to type up my comments this evening. Just wanted to give a heads up.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-05-21 13:41:43 UTC | #222

Hi @LightningLad91!

Thank you for your comment that you intend to provide! Any constructive input is appreciated and helps make the results stronger! Also note that ICRC-8 is still in an (early) draft stage.

Looking forward to your comments!

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-05-21 19:04:10 UTC | #223

I have updated the proposal after our meeting. 
https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/76#issuecomment-2123260559

A couple of outstanding questions for us to answer(maybe before the next meeting even): 

1. What to do about the follow/no follow data tags.
2. Do we split out the ic-http URI schema into its own ICRC? Is it useful elsewhere?

Some helpful things if people what to get involved

1. Work up some examples of what metadata would look like under different scenarios. Implementation exposes issues with our standards.
2. Work on the OpenSea, Enjin and IC based standards.  Here is what I removed:

```
When using the direct value method for metadata (`icrcX:metadata:value`), the following standard items are recommended within the metadata map:

- `icrcX:name`: Text â€” Name of the NFT.
- `icrcX:description`: Text â€” Description of the NFT.
- `icrcX:image`: Text â€” URL or data URL pointing to an image representing the NFT.
- `icrcX:preview`: Text â€” URL or data URL pointing to a thumbnail image of the NFT.
- `icrcX:experience`: Text â€” URL or data URL pointing to a dapp for interacting with the NFT.
- `icrcX:attributes`: Array of Maps â€” Each attribute is a map containing properties like trait type, value, and display type.

#### JSON Format Compliance
When metadata is represented in JSON format (either embedded or via URI), it should adhere to widely accepted standards such as those established for ERC-721 or ERC-1155:

- The JSON structure should generally omit the "icrcX:" prefix used in direct value maps.
- An optional field, `icrcX:metadata:format`, may be used to specify the metadata standard or version being followed (e.g., "erc721", "enjin", "opensea").

```

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-06-04 07:15:47 UTC | #224

The next meeting of the NFT Working Group is today, June 4, 2024. The agenda is to continue the discussions on ICRC-76.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-06-04 09:19:10 UTC | #225


Comments on the [draft of May 21 for ICRC-76](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/76#issuecomment-2123260559)

@skilesare, thanks a lot for the write up, this is already very nice! With the changes from the recent meeting it has really become very powerful, yet simple.

Some comments that we may want to discuss towards finalizing it follow below. We may want to cover some of those in the meeting this afternoon.


1. Editorial: "Metadata is hosted externally". 2. This is not true for data URIs, we need to rephrase this. E.g., "Metadata is accessible via a specified URI, which can either be a pointer to a JSON file hosted externally or a data URI as specified in RFC 2397.", or similar.

4. We should make explicit how a URI for URI-based metadata is expressed through a `Value`.

5. Maybe we should make explicit that any valid URI can be used and that the presented examples are the major prominent examples of schemes, but not exhaustive.

6. ic-uri seems to be a concept that is valuable also outside of this domain. The question is whether a generic standard would require further refinement. If so, we may want to refrain from making it separate now in order to not try to boil the ocean, but include it here and maybe factor a generalized variant out in the future as a separate ICRC.

7. Is the IC-URI only intended to address resources exposed through the http_request method of canisters? If so, would a URI scheme that addresses the native canister interface also be useful?

8. Mixing the approaches of representing metadata should be allowed, e.g., to have small metadata items directly expressed, but large ones like images linked via URL. This may be a prominent use case for practical scenarios. Making explicit that this is possible would be geat (if we agree that it is). We should present the structure how this would look like. Also, allowing for multiple metadata references may make sense, e.g., to combine metadata from different external locations. This is currently implicit (or even unsupported), but something that we may want to have.

9. Overall, we may want to make the difference between URI and URL more explicit. URIs are not followed, they are merely an "Identifier" (the "I" in "URI"). URLs are followed, the "L" stands for "Locator" in "URL".

10. URI-based metadata can again point to further metadata items, like images in a remote JSON file. This makes following recursive. We should make this explicit, otherwise it seems that there is only one level of following indirection.

11. Some outstanding questions on what to do about data in metadata that is Text, a URI, but NOT supposed to be traversed and included in the metadata. (Choice one is to have a specific tag in a map for this type of data ie icrc76:no_follow or two to have a tag for followable links ie icrc76:metadata:follow).
-> URIs are often used as identifiers that are not followed because URIs are essentially the only reasonable global namespacing system, so not following may be the default case without a tag, while following having a tag "icrc76:metadata:follow" might make most sense.

13. We may want to reserve already an ICRC number for the OpenSea-specific standard and maybe others as well.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-06-04 15:02:48 UTC | #226

Note that we have a new Zoom link for the WG in the calendar.

-------------------------

sea-snake | 2024-06-04 15:04:05 UTC | #227

It's still an old link on my end :/

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-06-04 15:05:21 UTC | #228

New Zoom link: https://dfinity.zoom.us/j/94485885321?pwd=OyElh1meMd4oZ2MTvudt39s1PRDK83.1

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-06-18 14:36:38 UTC | #229

Aus @skilesare is still out on vacation I suggest we drop the call this afternoon.

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-07-04 16:03:10 UTC | #230

All calendars should now reflect the correct Zoom link. Apologies for the issues recently of having an outdated link in the invitation.

-------------------------

kayicp | 2024-07-05 02:34:27 UTC | #231

hi @dieter.sommer 
i suppose we can update the status to `Accepted` now that it has passed the voting stage, yes?
![image|690x252](upload://yk3n8HkPzJTzmz7WC67MRibc0PF.png)

-------------------------

skilesare | 2024-07-05 18:36:41 UTC | #232

@dieter.sommer @sea-snake 

I took a stab at https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/61#issuecomment-2211229381 and then 76 uses it here: https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/76#issuecomment-2211267487

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-07-07 15:09:08 UTC | #233

Had forgotten to change this, but it has been changed earlier this afternoon.
Thank you for the reminder. :-)

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-07-07 15:10:38 UTC | #234

@skilesare  @sea-snake 

I drafted the `ic-http` URI scheme for addressing canister-hosted HTTP content, you can have a look at it in [Issue-91](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC/issues/91).

Feedback is welcome!

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-08-02 08:40:55 UTC | #235

The WG meetings are recorded from now on. You find the recordings in the following Google Drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R6lDsLtiF8caYjBmtlVDgcB_my30-b58

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-08-06 19:50:24 UTC | #236

Please find the slides and recordings of the meetings [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R6lDsLtiF8caYjBmtlVDgcB_my30-b58).

**Meeting of 2024-07-30**

* [Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1E-RDnoy3sPxlO-GOPmFy7Gd7K2cwLGW0/view?usp=share_link)

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-08-16 17:38:11 UTC | #237

Please find the slides and recordings of the meetings [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R6lDsLtiF8caYjBmtlVDgcB_my30-b58).

**Meeting of 2024-08-13**

* [Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QJst5NufGEAWHzzE9SxBbT5cWjunXx4H/view?usp=share_link)

-------------------------

dieter.sommer | 2024-08-20 17:30:59 UTC | #238

Please find the slides and recordings of the meetings [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R6lDsLtiF8caYjBmtlVDgcB_my30-b58).

**Meeting of 2024-08-20**

* [Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AtfTjVzzk2jBA10P6OwadYLJwEe3VZxr/view?usp=share_link)

-------------------------

